					Computer Network 

a computer network is a collection or set of computing devices connected to one another to establish the communication also share the resources.
a network will be comprise the software and hardware devices. (Builded using to sofware and hardware).
computer network is possible to share the files from one place to another place and take a some short time.

Application of Computer Network :-
network software applications utilize the newtwok.
used for the transfer a data from one point to another point within the network.
Some Applications of Computer network
1. marketing and sales 
2. financial services
3. manufacturing 
4. electronic messeging
5. directory services
6. information services
7. electronic data interchange
8. teleconfercing
9. cellular telephone
10. cable television.


Transmission Mode ::-
 a transmission mode is defined as, the direction of signal flow between the two linked devices is called as transmission mode.
a transmission mode can be classified as a, 1. Simplex, 2. Half Duplex, 3. Full Duplex
1. Simplex :- it is a unidirectional communication mode. in which the sender can only send the data and reciever can only recieve the data.
2. Half Duplex :- it is a bidirectional communication mode. in which the sender can send the data and as well as recieve the data but at time. it is same for reciever.
3. Full Duplex :- it this mode the the sender and reciever can send data and recieve data simultaneously.


Network Structure :-
it is also called as a line configuration. it is defined as a, attachment of communications devices to be link.
they are mainly three types of network structure 
1. Point-to-Point :- it is provided dedicated link between to devices. point-to-point connections use an actual length of wire or cable to connect the two ends.
2. MultiPoint :- in which more than two specific devices share a single link. it is a time shared connection.


Network Topologies :-
a network topologies is defined as a, the logical and physical arrangement of links in a network.
two or more devices connected to link, two or more links from a topology.
geometric representation of relationship.  1. peerTopeerRealationship & PrimarySecondary.
there are five types of network topologies :
1) mesh :- in which every device has dedicated point to point link to every other devices.
2) star :- 
3) bus
4) ring
5) hybrid/tree

1) mesh :- in which every device has dedicated point to point link to every other devices.
Advantages :_
1. eliminating the traffic problems.
2. mesh topology is a robust.
3. there is advantage of security and privacy.
4. fault identification isolation is easy.
Disadvantages :_
1. amount of cabeling.
2. installation and reconnection are difficult.
3. bulk of wiring.
4. hardware required to connect each link can be expensive.

2) star topology :-
in which device has a dedicated point to point link only to a central controller, usually called a hub.
in which devices are not directly connected to the unlike a mesh topology.
does not allow direct traffic between devices.
Advantages :_
1. less expensive.
2. easy to install and reconfigure.
3. less cabling are required.
4. it is a robust.
5. fault identification and isolation is easy.
Disadvantages :_
1. dependent on hub

3) bus topology :-
one long cable can acts as a backbone to link all the devices in a network.
nodes are connected to the bus cable by drop lines and taps.
a tap is a connector.
some of its energy is transformed into heat.
Advantages :_
easy to installation.
redundancy is eliminated.
Disadvantages :_
difficult reconnection and fault isolation.
cause a degradation in quality.
updation is difficult.



4) Ring Topology :-
in which each device has a dedicated point to point connection with only the neighboured two devices.
in which signal are traveled into in ring direction, from device to device.
Advantages :_
easy to install and reconfigure.
for updation purpose only changing the two connections.
fault isolation is simplified.
Disadvantages :_
unidirectional traffic.
one ring is disabled then entire network can be disabled.

Hybrid/tree topology :-
a network combines several topologies such as sub networks linked together in a larger topology.
for ex. a one Big hub can be connected the multiple sub systems and it is manage the seprately from its network.
if some time fault/issue in a main hub then entire system is off.

ISO OSI Reference Models, TCP/IP Reference Model & their Comparision :-
OSI :- open source interconnection model. 
an open system is a model that allows any two different systems communicate regardless of their underlaying architecture.

OSI Reference Model :-
it is a layered framework for the design of network systems that allow communication between all types of computer system.
it consists of seven seprate but related layers.
every layer defined the part of the process of moving information across a network.

Seven Layes of OSI Reference Model :-
1. Application Layer :- enable user to access the network.
2. Presentation Layer :- ezchanged information between two systems. Conversion, Compression, Encryption.
3. Session Layer :- it is a network dialog controller.
4. Transport Layer :- delivery of the entire message for source to destination.
5. Network Layer :- delivery of packets from source to destination.
6. Data Link Layer :-it makes the physical layer appear error free.
7. Physical Layer :- transmit a bit stream over a physical medium.

TCP/IP OSI Model :-
Application + Presentation + Session Layer = New TCP/IP Model Application Layer.


Comparision between TCP/IP and OSI Model ;-

1. based on protocol. & Communication
2. Guarantees of packets.
3. approach.
4. Sepration of Layers.
5. how to implement.
6. connection services.
7. protocol fiting.
8. replacing of protocal 
9. sepration of terms.
10. No. of Layers.








				Unit 02 :- Physical Layer 

Transmission Media
	- Guided (Wired) Media
	- Unguided (Wireless) Media

Guided Media :- provide a channel from one device to another, 
include twisted-pair cable, coaxial cable, and fiber optics cable.
a signal travelling along any of these media

Guided Media 
	- Twisted Pair Cable
	- Coaxial Cable
	- Fiber Optic Cable

Twisted Pair cable ;- consist two conductors, each with its own plastic insulation, twisted together.
Coaxial Cable :- use for the longer distances for give the high speed.
	       - Layes of Coaxial cable :- Copper Core, Insulating Material, Braided outer conductor, protective plastic covering.
Fiber Optics :-mainly three components 
	- Light Source
	- Transmission Media
	- Detector

Fiber Cables :- it is similiar to coax, except without the braid.
Layers of Fiber Cable :-
	- Core glass
	- Cladding (glass)
	- Jacket (plastic)

Advantages and Disadvantages of Optical Fiber :-

Adv :- Higher Bandwidth, less signal attenuation, immunity to electromagnetic interference, resistance to corrosive materials, light weight, greater immunity to tapping.
DisAdv. :- Installation&Maintainance, UnidirectionalLightPropogation, Cost


Submarine Cables :- it is a watercraft cable of independent operation underwater.

UnGuided Media :- wireless communication transports electromagnetic waves without causing physical conductor.

	- Electromagnetic Spectrum 
	- Radio Transmission
	- Microwave Transmission.
	- Infrared & Millimeter waves
	- Light wave Transmission